BODILY HOUSE-CLEANING WITH BLOOD CIRCULATION

	This is the equivalent of an "internal shower." As the spring freshets
born of the heavy rains and vast masses of melting snows on mountains
in the hinterlands cause rivers to swell and rush turbulently onward to
the sea, so, too, will your blood flow with renewed vigor as the direct
result of your faithfully performing the Contrology exercises. These
exercises induce the heart to pump strong and steadily with the result
that the bloodstream is forced to carry and discharge more and more
of the accumulated debris created by fatigue. Contrology exercises
drive the pure fresh blood to every muscle fibre of our bodies, par-
ticularly to the very important capillaries which ordinarily are rarely
ever fully stimulated once we have reached adulthood. As a heavy
rainstorm freshens the water of a sluggish or stagnant stream and
whips it into immediate action, so Contrology exercises purify the
blood in the bloodstream and whip it into instant action with the
result that the organs of the body, including the important sweat
glands, receive the benefit of clean fresh blood carried to them by the
rejuvenated bloodstream. Observe the beneficial effects that Con-
trology exercises have on your heart action.
	Contrology exercises guard against unnecessary pounding or throb-
bing of your heart. Study carefully the poses illustrated by the photo-
graphs and note that all the exercises are performed while you are
in a sitting or reclining position. This is done to relieve your heart
from undue strain as well as to take advantage of the more normal
(original) position of the visceral organs of your body when in such
positions. Contrary to exercises performed in an upright position,
those performed while you are in a recumbent position do not aggra-
vate any possible undetected organic weakness.
	True heart control follows correct breathing which simultaneously
reduces heart strain, purifies the blood, and develops the lungs. To
breathe correctly you must completely exhale and inhale, always
trying very hard to "squeeze" every atom of impure air from your
lungs in much the same manner that you would wring every drop of
water from a wet cloth. When you stand erect again, the lungs will
automatically completely refill themselves with fresh air. This in turn
supplies the bloodstream with vitally necessary life-giving oxygen.
Also the complete exhalation and inhalation of air stimulates all
muscles into greater activity. Soon the entire body is abundantly
charged with fresh oxygen, a fact which makes itself instantly known
as the revitalized blood reaches the tips of your fingers and toes
similarly as the heat generated by a good head of steam in your
boiler and properly distributed by your radiators is felt in every room
in your house.
	Breathing is the first act of life, and the last. Our very life depends
on it. Since we cannot live without breathing, it is tragically deplor-
able to contemplate the millions and millions who have never learned
to master the art of correct breathing. One often wonders how so
many millions continue to live as long as they do under this tremendous
handicap to longevity. Lazy breathing converts the lungs, figuratively
speaking, into a cemetery for the deposition of diseased, dying, and
dead germs as well as supplying an ideal haven for the multiplication
of other harmful germs. Therefore, above all, learn how to breathe
correctly. "SQUEEZE" EVERY ATOM OF AIR FROM YOUR LUNGS
UNTIL THEY ARE ALMOST AS FREE OF AIR AS IS A VACUUM.
Stand erect again and observe how your lungs will automatically
completely refill themselves with fresh air. The impact of so much
oxygen upon your bloodstream may at first quite naturally and nor-
mally result in your experiencing a slight sensation of "lightheaded-
ness," similar to the effect you might experience were you for the
first time to find yourself actively engaged in the rarefied atmosphere
high up in the mountains. However, after a few days this feeling will
entirely disappear.
	Whenever you read the word "rolling" in the exercises, be sure to
hold your chin pressed tightly against your chest and, when you lie
down or when you rise, "roll" and "unroll" your spine exactly in
imitation of a wheel rolling forward and backward. Vertebra by
vertebra try to "roll" and "unroll" as suggested. It is this very action
of "rolling" and "unrolling" that cleanses your lungs so effectively by
driving out the impure air and forcing in the pure air as you "roll"
and "unroll." Indefatigably and conscientiously practice breathing
until the art of correct breathing becomes habitual, automatic and
subconscious, which accomplishment will result in the bloodstream
receiving its full quota of oxygen and thus ward off undue fatigue.
	Study carefully. Do not sacrifice knowledge to speed in building
your solid exercise regime on the foundation of Contrology. Follow
instructions exactly as indicated down to the very smallest detail.
There IS a reason! Contrology is not a system of haphazard exercises
designed to produce only bulging muscles. Just to the contrary, it was
conceived and tested (for over forty-three years) with the idea of
properly and scientifically exercising every muscle in your body in
order to improve the circulation of the blood so that the bloodstream
can and will carry more and better blood to feed every fibre and tissue
of your body. Nor does Contrology err either by over-developing a
few muscles at the expense of all others with resulting loss of grace
and suppleness, or at a sacrifice of the heart or lungs. Rather, it was
conceived to limber and stretch muscles and ligaments so that your
body will be as supple as that of a cat and not muscular like that of
the body of a brewery-truck horse, or the muscle-bound body of the
professional weight-lifter you so much admire in the circus.
	Concentrate on the correct movements EACH TIME YOU EXERCISE,
lest you do them improperly and thus lose all the vital benefits of their
value. Correctly executed and mastered to the point of subconscious
reaction, these exercises will reflect grace and balance in your routine
activities. Contrology exercises build a sturdy body and sound mind
fitted to perform every daily task with ease and perfection as well as
to provide tremendous reserve energy for sports, recreation, emer-
gencies. Very interesting, but quite obvious when you stop to think of
it, is the undisputable fact that no one modern activity employs all our
muscles. The nearest approach to this ideal is found in all-round
swimming and fancy diving. Walking, the only exercise over activity
common to most of us, employs only a limited number of muscles.
With repetition the art of walking becomes a subconscious habit, not
infrequently a bad one, and only too often accompanied by poor
posture—note our letter-carriers.
	However, there is another important reason for consistently exer-
cising all our muscles; namely, that each muscle may cooperatively
and loyally aid in the uniform development of ail our muscles. Devel-
oping minor muscles naturally help to strengthen major muscles. As
small bricks are employed to build large buildings, so will the devel-
opment of small muscles help develop large muscles. Therefore, when
all your muscles are properly developed you will, as a matter of
course, perform your work with minimum effort and maximum
pleasure.
	On a pleasant sunshiny morning, how we all naturally thrill in
anticipation of accompanying congenial friends on a trip over modern
highways to the country in a perfect-running automobile with a good
driver at the wheel, knowing that his gradual acceleration and decel-
eration and his skillful negotiation of even sharp curves and abrupt
turns are all accomplished so smoothly that we never give a conscious
thought to his fine driving but rather concentrate on enjoying the
passing scenery. How different, however, our reactions when taking
a similar ride in a neglected car driven by a bad driver whose jerky
starts, sudden stops, and dangerous turns not only upset our balance
constantly but also rob us of the pleasure of the trip, especially after
we realize that, luckily for us, he just missed "capsizing" the car
although he did not succeed in avoiding dumping us into the ditch.
	With the foregoing examples to guide us, we should wisely select
as our pattern of life in this Modern Age that which excludes constant
pushing, shoving, rushing, crowding, and wild scrambling all so
characteristic of our day. This too fast pace is plainly reflected in
our manner of standing, walking, sitting, eating, and even talking and
results in our nerves "being on edge" from morning to night and
actually depriving us of our needed sleep.
	Constantly keep in mind the fact that you are not interested in
merely developing bulging muscles but rather flexible ones. Bulging
muscles hinder the attainment of flexibility because the over-devel-
oped muscles interfere with the proper development of the under-
developed muscles. True flexibility can be achieved only when all
muscles are uniformly developed. Normal muscles should function
naturally in much the same manner as do the muscles of animals. For
instance, at the very next opportunity, watch a cat as it lazily opens
its eyes, slowly looks around, and gradually prepares to rise after a
nap. First, it gradually rises on its hindquarters and then gradually
lowers itself again, at the same time sprawling out on the floor,
leisurely stretching its forepaws (with extended claws) and legs.
Observe closely how all its back muscles actually ripple as it stretches
and relaxes itself. Cats as well as other animals acquire this ideal
rhythm of motion because they are constantly stretching and relaxing
themselves, sharpening their claws, twisting, squirming, turning,
climbing, wrestling, and fighting. Also observe, too, how cats sleep-
utterly relaxed whether they happen to be lying on their back, side
or belly. Contrology exercises emphasize the need for this constant
stretching and relaxing.
	Before proceeding, we must speak of the spinal column with which
are associated practically all the major activities of our body. The
spine is composed of 26 vertebrae. Each vertebra is separated from
the other by intervertebral cartilage. This cartilage acts as a cushion
to absorb the shock of sudden jars, reduces fricfion to a minimum, and
gives the spine its characteristic flexibility, thus permitting it to func-
tion even more freely. The science of Contrology disproves that
prevalent and all-too-trite saying, "You're only as old as you feel."
The art of Contrology proves that the only real guide to your true age
lies not in years or how you THINK you feel but as you ACTUALLY
are as infallibly indicated by the degree of natural and normal flexi-
bility enjoyed by your spine throughout life. If your spine is inflexibly
stiff at 30, you are old; if it is completely flexible at 60, you are young.
	Because of poor posture, practically 95 per cent of our population
suffers from varying degrees of spinal curvature, not to mention more
serious ailments. In a newly-born infant the back is flat because the
spine is straight. Of course, we all know that this is exactly as intended
by nature not only then but also throughout life. However, this ideal
condition rarely obtains in adult life. When the spine curves, the
entire body is thrown out of its natural alignment—off balance. Note
daily the thousands of persons with round, stooped shoulders, and
protruding abdomens. The back would be flat if the spine were kept
as straight as a plumb line, and its flexibility would be comparable to
that of the finest watch spring steel.
	Fortunately, the spine lends itself quite readily to correction. There-
fore, in the reclining exercises, be sure wherever indicated, to keep
your back full length always pressed firmly against the mat or floor.
When rising from the floor or lowering yourself to the floor, always
do so with a "rolling" or "unrolling" motion exactly in imitation of a
wheel, equipped with imaginary "vertebrae" rolling forward or back-
ward. Vertebra by vertebra try to "roll" and "unroll." These "rolling"
and "unrolling" movements tend to gradually but surely restore the
spine to its normal at-birth position with its correspondingly increased
flexibility. At the same time you are completely emptying and refilling
your lungs to their full capacity. This admittedly requires persistence
and earnest effort but—it is worth it!
	It would be a grave error to assume that even Contrology exercises
alone will remake a man or a woman into an entirely physically fit
person. To understand this statement better, just remember that exer-
cises as such with relation to physical fitness are somewhat similar to
the relationship a grindstone or hone bears to an axe or razor. For
example, how obvious is the answer to the foolish question as to which
of two equally expert woodchoppers would cry "Timber" first, the
one with a dull axe or saw, or the one who habitually sharpens his
tools nightly in preparation for his work the next day. Correspond-
ingly, proper diet and sufficient sleep must supplement our exercise
in our quest for physical fitness. Another important factor in this con-
nection is that of relaxation at stated fixed intervals throughout our
workday wherever it is possible to do so, since this practice keeps us
physically fit after we have obtained physical fitness. The man who
uses intelligence with respect to his diet, his sleeping habits, and
who exercises properly, is beyond any question of doubt taking the
very best preventive medicines provided so freely and abundantly
by nature.
	By all means never fail to get all the sunshine and fresh air that you
can. Remember too, that your body also "breathes" through the pores
of your skin as well as through your mouth, nose, and lungs. Clean,
open skin pores permit perspiration to uninterruptedly eliminate the
poisons of your body. Moreover, unless you are really chilly, do not
exercise in sweatshirts or even in lighter clothing. Whenever and
wherever possible, wear "shorts" or sunsuits outdoors, and let the
lifegiving ultraviolet rays reach and penetrate into every skin pore
of your body. Do not fear the cold of winter. When you are outdoors
wear rather loose-fitting clothes in preference to tight-fitting gar-
ments, not overlooking, of course, the importance of stout, comfortable
shoes. Breathe properly, walk correctly, and swing along briskly. If
you follow this sound advice you will find yourself feeling comfortable
and invigorated.
	The principal point to remember with regard to diet is to eat only
enough food to restore the "fuel" consumed by the body and to keep
enough of it on hand at all times to furnish the extra energy required
on occasions beyond our normal needs and to meet unexpected
emergencies. Merely eating to satisfy one's lust for good food is both
foolish and dangerous to one's health. Such a person cannot ever
be truly physically fit. No wonder! Youth and growing children quite
naturally require a greater intake of food than do adults and the
aged. The former are maturing; the latter have matured.
	Not only the amount of food but also the kind is largely dependent
upon one's occupation and sometimes, lack of it. Is it not reasonable
to conclude that the sedentary indoor worker requires proportionately
less food and of a different kind than the laborer who is engaged in
hard manual toil outdoors? Heavy eating followed immediately by
sitting, or even lying down awake or asleep, is comparable to over-
loading the firebox with coal and then closing the drafts of the furnace.
The former instance is ideal for generating "poisons" that eventually
find their way into your bloodstream. The latter instance is ideal if
your aim is to maintain a smoldering fire without adequate heat
instead of a bright, glowing fire to radiate its comforting warmth
throughout your house. You have the choice in either case. Common
sense dictates that you will make the right one. A man eating a heavy
meal and indulging in vigorous activity will react thereto comparably
to the way that a furnace with drafts open will react to a fire in a
well-filled firebox. Accordingly, it is earnestly suggested that you
guide your eating habits with all due respect to the required amount
of food and kind you need to keep yourself physically fit, always as
indicated by your occupation, or lack of it.
	Often men who have been accustomed to work hard on a farm or
play hard in school athletics or labor hard in a factory, continue
eating the hearty meals they then ate even though now they are
engaged only in sedentary indoor occupations where moderate meals
are indicated. This practice is very unwise since it unnecessarily adds
excess weight to their bodies, much of it in the form of undesirable
fat which, if man were»a hibernator, he could draw on in much the
same manner that hibernating animals do in the winter when they
draw against the stockpile of reserved energy with which the instinct
of nature has provided them over the long period of their enforced
inactivity and "sleep." Since man is not a hibernating creature, such
excess of fat is a real detriment to him, imposing an unnecessarily
heavy burden on his heart, liver, bladder and other vitally important
organs of his digestive system. Still worse for him is the unnatural
formation and accumulation of fat directly around the heart itself.
The carrying of this extra poundage produces needless fatigue.
Imagine yourself, for instance, carrying a well-filled traveling bag
weighing 20 pounds. For one or two blocks, all goes comparatively
well, but with each additional block it is carried the urge to rest is
proportionately increased until at length the resulting fatigue compels
you to do so. How relieved you feel after you have reached your
final destination! You are doing exactly the very same thing when
you persist in carrying 20 needless pounds of excess weight on your
body only you are not so keenly aware of it because the weight is
carried by the entire body instead of by your carrying arm alone as
in the case of the bag. However, fatigue is created thereby in either
case. Why not relieve yourself of this truly "excess baggage?"
	Once acquired, it is, unfortunately, not so easy to rid yourself of
excess weight. Nevertheless, it can be done! Consult your family
physician for regular physical check-ups, and then follow his sound
advice and instructions implicitly. Every adult over 40 years of age
should not deny himself the benefits of a medical examination every
three months. Once a year should suffice for younger persons unless
some condition indicates to the contrary. Even in their case, consult-
ing their physician twice a year would be wise. If this sound sugges-
tion is followed, latent ailments can be discovered in their early
developmental stage, and the "growth" of a long and perhaps serious
illness may thus be "nipped in the bud."
	If any particular part of your body is under-developed or shows
an accumulation of excess fat, select Contrology exercises specifically
designed to correct the respective conditions, repeating the exercises
at stated intervals throughout the workday whenever it is possible to
do so. However, be sure NEVER TO REPEAT THE SELECTED EXER-
CISER) MORE THAN THE PRESCRIBED NUMBER OF TIMES since
more harm will result than good by your unwittingly or intentionally
disregarding this most important advice and direction. Why? Be-
cause this infraction creates muscular fatigue—poison. There is really
no need for tired muscles. Judicious selection of special Contrology
exercises will accomplish more for your health and bodily condition,
in conjunction with the foregoing advice, than all else combined.
	Now let us consider the important question of good sleep at night.
A quiet, cool, well-ventilated room is best. Do not use a soft mattress.
"Firm but not soft" is a good rule to follow. Use the lightest possible
bed coverings consistent with warmth. Do not use large bulky pillows
(or as some do, two stacked pillows)—better still, use none at all.
	Most important in the matter of enjoying good recuperative sleep
are quiet, darkness, fresh air, and mental calm. Nervousness is usually
aggravated by a lack of proper exercise, especially in the case of one
with a troubled mind. The best alleviative for this condition is exercise.
So if your sleep is disturbed, rise immediately and perform your
exercises. It is far better to be tired from physical exertion than to
be fatigued by the "poisons" generated by nervousness while lying
awake. Particularly beneficial in this regard are the spinal "rolling"
and "unrolling" massage exercises which relax the nerves and induce
sound, restful sleep.
	While conceding the fact that nowadays practically everyone of us
routinely indulges in daily baths, experience has nevertheless taught
us that only a small minority really achieve thorough cleanliness
thereby, from our point of view. In our opinion, the correct technique
to use in accomplishing this highly desirable result is to use only a
good stiff brush (no handle) since this type of brush forces us to twist,
squirm, and contort ourselves in every conceivable way in our attempts
to reach every portion of our body which are otherwise comparatively
easy to reach with a handle brush. The use of a good stiff brush as
described stimulates circulation, thoroughly cleans OUT the pores of
the skin, and removes dead skin too. The pores of your skin must
"breathe"—they cannot do so unless they are kept open and freed
from clogging. Your skin will soon respond most gratifyingly to this
perhaps seemingly "Spartan-like" treatment and acquire in the
process a new, fresh, glowing appearance, and develop a texture
smooth and soft to the touch. So brush away merrily, and heartily too!
	Finally, beginning with the introductory lesson, each succeeding
exercise should be mastered before proceeding progressively with
the following exercises. Make a close study of each exercise and do
not attempt any other exercise until you first have mastered the
current one and know its routine down to the last detail without any
reference to the text. Be certain that you have your entire body under
complete mental control.