9. Rocker With Open Legs

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
Pose 2 	(a) Bend knees
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY
Pose 3 	(a) Grasp ankles firmly
	(b) Toes (pointed) forward and downward (knees locked)
	(c) Spread legs upward and outward as far as possible
	(d) Keep abdomen "drawn" in as far as possible with
	(e) Chin touching chest
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) "Roll" over backward trying to touch mat or floor with
	toes

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing "rocking" exercise backward and forward six (6) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3—Arms and legs rigid (elbows and knees locked). "Pivot" on base of spine,
"rocking" backward to Pose 4 position, then "rock" forward, pressing head
firmly against chest, at the same time pressing arms firmly forward against legs
until you reach Pose 3 and try to balance yourself in that position.


10. The Cork-Screw

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1	(a) Take position illustrated 
	(b) Entire spine must rest on floor or mat
	(c) Arms straight forward touching body
	(d) Palms down
Pose 2	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Raise legs (close together) "rolling" upward until
	(c) Body rests on shoulders, arms and head
	(d) Knees locked
	(e) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 3	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Lower both legs (close together) but not touching mat or
	floor
	(c) Knees locked
	(d) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(e) Twist trunk "corkscrew" fashion until
	(f) Body is partially lowered on right side to mat or floor
Pose 4	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Make a complete right-to-left circle upward as far as
	possible and
	(c) Return to Pose 2 position
side to mat or floor

Pose 3	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Lower both legs (close together) but not touching mat or
	floor
	(c) Knees locked
	(d) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(e) Twist trunk "corkscrew" fashion until
	f) Body is partially lowered on left 
Pose 4	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Make a complete left-to-right circle upward as far as possible and
	(c) Return to Pose 2 position

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times each.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3—While "circling" keep both shoulders pressed to mat or floor. Arms
straight.
Pose 4—While "circling" keep both shoulders pressed to mat or floor. Arms
straight.

REMARKS

This exercise strengthens neck and shoulders and is an internal and spinal massage.


10.  The Saw

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position as illustrated
	(b) Spread legs as wide apart as possible
	(c) Head up
	(d) Chin "drawn" in
	(e) Chest out
	(f) Abdomen "drawn" in
	(g) Arms (shoulder-high) pressed backward until shoulder
	blades lock
	(h) INHALE SLOWLY
Pose 2 (a) Twist body (from trunk only) to right as far as possible
Pose 3 (a) Bend forward and downward as far as possible until
	(b) Left hand crosses and rests diagonally and centrally on
	right foot
	(c) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(d) Stretching body forward in three (3) successive sliding-
	reaching "saw-like" motions as far as possible
Pose 4 	(a) Resume position illustrated in this pose
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY
Pose 2 	(a) Twist body (from trunk only) to left as far as possible
Pose 3 	(a) Bend forward and downward as far as possible until
	right hand crosses and rests diagonally and centrally
	on left foot
	(b) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(c) Stretching body forward in three (3) successive sliding-
	reaching "saw-like" motions as far as possible.


NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times each.

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Twist body before bending forward as in Pose 3.
Pose 3—Lift raised arm backward and upward as high as possible as indicated
in this pose.


12. The Swan-Dive

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	Take position illustrated
and 
Pose 2 

Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Head raised upward and backward as far as possible
	(c) Chest raised high from mat or floor
	(d) Raise arms upward and sideward in line with locked
	shoulders
	(e) Turn palms upward (right to left)
	(f) Legs (close together) stretched and raised off mat or floor
	(g) Toes (pointed) forward and downward (knees locked)
	(h) Body rigid
	(i) Back locked
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY as you "rock" forward
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY as you "rock" upward

NOTE
Repeat the foregoing "rocking" exercise six (6) times.

CAUTIONS
Pose 3—Keep back locked, legs off mat or floor, head back, arms rigid, shoul-
ders locked.


13. The One Leg Kick

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Lie flat with head resting on arms
	(c) Stretch legs (close together) straight backward
	(d) Knees locked
	(e) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 2	(a) Lie on abdomen
	(b) Head up
	(c) Raise chest above mat or floor
	(d) Stretch arms forward to rightangle position
	(e) Rest clenched fists on mat or floor
	(f) Stretch legs (close together) straight backward
	(g) Keep knees locked
	(h) Toes (pointed) forward and downward

Pose 3	(a) INHALE SLOWLY and
	(b) Raise legs about 2" above mat or floor
	(c) Try to snap-kick heel of right leg to buttocks

Pose 4	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(b) Stretching right leg backward and with
	(c) Heel of left leg
	(d) Try to snap-kick heel of left leg to buttocks

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise six (6) times—right and left.

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Head up. Chest above mat or floor.
Pose 3—Keep toes (pointed) above mat or floor.


14. The Double Kick

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Arms stretched backward
	(c) Firmly pressed to sides of body
	(d) Fists clenched
	(e) Face down and
	(f) Chin touching mat or floor
	(g) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(h) Knees locked
Pose 2 	(a) Rest chin on mat or floor
	(b) Fold arms backward
	(c) Grasp fingers of left hand with right hand
	(d) Stretch legs (close together) straight backward
	(e) Knees locked
	(f) Toes (pointed) backward and downward and
	(g) Raised about 1" above mat or floor
Pose 3 	(a) Raise legs forward to rightangle position
Pose 4 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Thrust chest out with head thrown back as far as possible
	and at the same time
	(c) Raise arms (locked) from body
	(d) Stretch backward (tensed) as far as possible, then
	(e) Snap-kick legs (tensed) straight backward and
	(f) Raised as high as possible from mat or floor

NOTE

Repeat foregoing exercise five (5) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 4—Keep head up as high as possible. Keep arms stretched backward as
far as possible without touching body.


15. The Neck Pull

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY
	(c) Clasp hands (fingers firmly interlocked) behind head
	(d) Toes (pointed) up and backward
Pose 2 	(a) Bend head forward, chin touching chest
	(b) Abdomen "drawn" in
	(c) Toes (poinded) upward
	(d) Spine "bowed" forward off mat or floor
Pose 3 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Tense and press legs firmly downward against mat or
	floor
	(c) Slowly raise body upward and forward to position as
	indicated
	(d) Toes (pointed) upward
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Bend body forward until head and knees meet, if possi-
	ble, as illustrated
	(c) Keep elbows straight backward until shoulder blades lock
	(d) INHALE SLOWLY while
	(e) Returning to Pose 3 position
	(f) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(g) Returning to Poses 2 and 1 positions


NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 1—Keep toes (pointed) upward.
Pose 2—Keep legs pressed firmly to mat or floor (if necessary, placing cushion on
feet).
Pose 4—Elbows straight backward until shoulder blades lock.


16. The Scissors
 
INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
Pose 2 	(a) Bring legs upward until
	(b) Your body rests on head, shoulders, upper arms, neck
	and elbows, then with
	(c) "Cupped" hands supporting hips
	(d) INHALE SLOWLY
Pose 3 	(a) "Split" legs scissors-like (left leg backward; right leg for-
	ward)
	(b) Legs stretched (knees locked)
	(c) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Alternate "split" legs scissors-like (right leg backward;
	left leg forward)

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing scissors-like exercise six (6) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Keep body rigid, move legs only, knees locked, toes (pointed) forward
and downward. Try gradually to execute "split" so that toes of forward leg, in
alternating movements, are beyond your vision; and backward leg, in alter-
nating movements, likewise.
