THE BASIC FUNDAMENTALS OF A 
NATURAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION

CIVILIZATION IMPAIRS PHYSICAL FITNESS

	Physical fitness is the first requisite of happiness. Our interpretation
of physical fitness is the attainment and maintenance of a uniformly
developed body with a sound mind fully capable of naturally, easily,
and satisfactorily performing our many and varied daily tasks with
spontaneous zest and pleasure. To achieve the highest accomplish-
ments within the scope of our capabilities in all walks of life we must
constantly strive to acquire strong, healthy bodies and develop our
minds to the limit of our ability. This very rapidly progressing world
with its ever-increasing faster tempo of living demands that we be
physically fit and alert in order that we may succeed in the unceasing
race with keen competition which rewards the "go-getter" but by-
passes the "no-getter." 
	Physical fitness can neither be acquired by
wishful thinking nor by outright purchase. However, it can be gained
through performing the daily exercises conceived for this purpose by
the founder of Contrology whose unique methods accomplish this
desirable result by successfully counteracting the harmful inherent
conditions associated with modern civilization.
	In the Stone Age and onward man lived mostly outdoors with prac-
tically little shelter from the elements. He has not yet lived long
enough indoors with protection against the elements to be able to
successfully withstand the daily strains and stresses imposed upon him
by our present mode of "fast" living. This explains why both you and
I and all the rest of us are compelled in our own interest to give constant
thought to the improvement of our bodies and to spend more time in
acquiring and maintaining that all-important goal of physical fitness.
	All in all, we do not give our bodies the care that our wellbeing
deserves. True, we do stroll in the fresh air whenever our whimsical
spirit moves us, or whenever necessity compels us to do so, with the
result that on these occasions we do, in spite of ourselves, exercise our
legs to this limited extent, accomplished, however, at the sacrifice of
the rest of our body which after all is much more important to us from
the viewpoint of our general health. Is it any wonder then that this
haphazard and wholly inadequate body-building technique of the
average person fails so miserably in the acquirement of physical
fitness!
	Admittedly, it is rather difficult to gain ideal physical fitness under
the handicap of daily breathing the soot-saturated air of our crowded
and noisy cities. On the other hand, we can more quickly realize this
ambition if we are privileged to breathe the pure fresh air of the
country and forests without the accompaniment of the traffic roar of
the city which constantly tends to keep our nerves strung taut. Even
those of us who work in the city and are fortunate enough to live in
the country must counteract the unnatural physical fatigue and mental
strain experienced in our daily activities. Telephones, automobiles,
and economic pressure all combine to create physical letdown and
mental stress so great that today practically no home is entirely free
from sufferers of some form of nervous tension.
	Because of the intense concentration demanded by our work and
despite the real enjoyment our work may bring some of us we, never-
theless, gladly welcome any additional relief in the form of diversified
and pleasant recreational activities, preferably outdoors, in our con-
stant attempts to offset the effects of increasing cares and burdens so
common today. To ease mental strain and relieve physical fatigue we
must acquire a reserve stockpile of nervous energy in order that we
may really be able to enjoy ourselves at night. Hobbies and all forms
of play tend materially to renew our vitality with accompanying moral
uplift. Play is not necessarily only confined to indulging in conven-
tional games. Rather the term "play" as we use it here, embraces
every possible form of PLEASURABLE LIVING. For example, simply
spending a quiet and pleasant evening at home with our family
chatting with congenial friends is, according to our interpretation, a
form of play; that is, delightful, pleasant social entertainment as
distinguished from our daily work. This finds us cheerful, contented,
and relaxed.
	However, many of us at the end of our daily work lack sufficient
energy at night for recreation. How many of us simply spend the night
routinely reading the evening newspaper? How many of us are
entirely too exhausted to read, even occasionally, an interesting book,
visit our friends, or see one of the latest motion pictures? When some
of us occasionally spend a weekend away from our usual city haunts
and environments, instead of receiving the immediate benefits of that
desirable change in the way of complete revitalization (without
fatigue) as the result of our experience outdoors in the bright sunshine,
we are more often than not likely to find ourselves only recovering
from the shock of our disappointment about the middle of the follow-
ing week. 
	Why? Because our previous mode of living and the conse-
quent neglect of our bodies has not prepared us for reaping the
beneficial results of this diversion. We lacked the necessary reserve
energy to draw upon for this purpose and the fault lies only with us
and not with nature as most of us like to think. All that any normal
body should require is a change —from whatever it has previously
been subjected to.
	Accordingly, since we are living in this Modern Age we must of
necessity devote more time and more thought to the important matter
of acquiring physical fitness. This does not necessarily imply that we
must devote ourselves only to the mere development of any particular
pet set of muscles, but rather more rationally to the uniform develop-
ment of our bodies as a whole—keeping all our organs as nearly as
possible in their naturally normal condition so that we may not only
be in a better position to earn our daily bread but also so that we
may have sufficient vitality in reserve at night for the enjoyment of
compensating pleasure and relaxation.
	Perhaps with some feeling of doubt you ask, "How can I realize
such a Utopian condition? At night I am much too tired to go to a
gymnasium." Or, "Isn't it too costly to enroll for a conditioning course
in some good gymnasium or club?" RETURN TO LIFE fully explains
how you can successfully achieve your worthy ambition to attain
physical fitness right in your own home and at only nominal cost.

