	However, many of us at the end of our daily work lack sufficient
energy at night for recreation. How many of us simply spend the night
routinely reading the evening newspaper? How many of us are
entirely too exhausted to read, even occasionally, an interesting book,
visit our friends, or see one of the latest motion pictures? When some
of us occasionally spend a weekend away from our usual city haunts
and environments, instead of receiving the immediate benefits of that
desirable change in the way of complete revitalization (without
fatigue) as the result of our experience outdoors in the bright sunshine,
we are more often than not likely to find ourselves only recovering
from the shock of our disappointment about the middle of the follow-
ing week. 
	Why? Because our previous mode of living and the conse-
quent neglect of our bodies has not prepared us for reaping the
beneficial results of this diversion. We lacked the necessary reserve
energy to draw upon for this purpose and the fault lies only with us
and not with nature as most of us like to think. All that any normal
body should require is a change —from whatever it has previously
been subjected to.
	Accordingly, since we are living in this Modern Age we must of
necessity devote more time and more thought to the important matter
of acquiring physical fitness. This does not necessarily imply that we
must devote ourselves only to the mere development of any particular
pet set of muscles, but rather more rationally to the uniform develop-
ment of our bodies as a whole—keeping all our organs as nearly as
possible in their naturally normal condition so that we may not only
be in a better position to earn our daily bread but also so that we
may have sufficient vitality in reserve at night for the enjoyment of
compensating pleasure and relaxation.
	Perhaps with some feeling of doubt you ask, "How can I realize
such a Utopian condition? At night I am much too tired to go to a
gymnasium." Or, "Isn't it too costly to enroll for a conditioning course
in some good gymnasium or club?" RETURN TO LIFE fully explains
how you can successfully achieve your worthy ambition to attain
physical fitness right in your own home and at only nominal cost.