CONTROLOGY RESTORES PHYSICAL FITNESS

	Contrology is complete coordination of body, mind, and spirit.
Through Contrology you first purposefully acquire complete control
of your own body and then through proper repetition of its exercises
you gradually and progressively acquire that natural rhythm and
coordination associated with all your subconscious activities. This true
rhythm and control is observed both in domestic pets and wild animals
—without known exceptions.
	Contrology develops the body uniformly, corrects wrong postures,
restores physical vitality, invigorates the mind, and elevates the spirit.
In childhood, with rare exceptions, we all enjoy the benefits of natural
and normal physical development. However, as we mature, we find
ourselves living in bodies not always complimentary to our ego. Our
bodies are slumped, our shoulders are stooped, our eyes are hollow,
our muscles are flabby, and our vitality extremely lowered, if not
vanished. This is but the natural result of not having uniformly devel-
oped all the muscles of our spine, trunk, arms, and legs in the course
of pursuing our daily labors and office activities.
	If you will faithfully perform your Contrology exercises regularly
only four times a week for just three months as outlined in RETURN
TO LIFE, you will find your body development approaching the ideal,
accompanied by renewed mental vigor and spiritual enhancement.
Contrology is designed to give you suppleness, natural grace, and
skill that will be unmistakably reflected in the way you walk, in the
way you play, and in the way you work. You will develop muscular
power with corresponding endurance, ability to perform arduous
duties, to play strenuous games, to walk, run or travel for long dis-
tances without undue body fatigue or mental strain. And this by no
means is the end.
	One of the major results of Contrology is gaining the mastery of
your mind over the complete control of your body. How many begin-
ners are amazed and chagrined (even trained athletes in the public
eye) to discover how few (if any) Contrology exercises they are able
to execute properly! Their previous failure to exercise 