	THE EXERCISES
1. The Hundred

INSTRUCTIONS for "The Hundred"
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Lie flat with body resting on mat or floor
	(c) Stretch arms (shoulder-wide, touching body, palms down)
	straight forward
	(d) Stretch legs (close together, knees locked) straight forward
	(e) Stretch toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 2 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Lift both feet about 2" above mat or floor
	(c) Raise head with eyes focused on toes
	(d) Raise both arms about 6" to 8" above thighs
Pose 3 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Raise and lower both arms (tensed)
	(c) From shoulders only
	(d) Without touching body
	(e) Within a radius of 6" to 8"
	(f) Mentally counting 5 movements while
	(g) EXHALING SLOWLY
	(h) Alternating with 5 similar movements while
	(i) INHALING SLOWLY
	(j) Begin with only 20 movements and
	(k) Gradually increase them in units of
	(I) 5 additional movements each time until a
	(m) Maximum of 100 movements is reached
	(n) Never exceed 100 movements
Pose 4 	(a) Relax completely

REMARKS
At first you probably will not be able to carry out instructions as illustrated in
poses — this proves why these exercises and all succeeding ones will benefit you.
However, with patience and perseverance you eventually should succeed in
achieving the ideals as posed — with accompanying normal health.


2. The Roll Up

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Lie flat with entire body resting on mat or floor
	(b) Stretch arms (shoulder-wide, palms up) straight back-
	ward
	(c) Stretch legs (close together, knees locked) straight for-
	ward
	(d) Stretch toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 2 	(a) Begin INHALING SLOWLY and bring arms (shoulder-
	wide) straight forward to upright right angle position
	and
	(b) Toes (pointed) upward
Pose 3 	(a) While still INHALING SLOWLY
	(b) Bend head forward and downward until
	(c) Chin touches chest and then
	(d) Begin EXHALING SLOWLY and
	(e) Start "rolling" slowly upward and straight forward
Pose 4 	(a) While EXHALING SLOWLY finish
	(b) "Rolling" forward until
	(c) Forehead touches legs and then
	(d) Begin INHALING SLOWLY while returning to Pose 3
	and Poses 2 and 1
NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times, trying with each repetition not only
to stretch the entire body more and more but also to reach farther and farther
straight forward as indicated.

CAUTIONS

Pose 1—Entire spine must touch mat or floor. Tense body (do not bend arms or
legs).
Pose 3 —Press both legs against mat or floor; if at first unsuccessful, placing
cushion on your feet will materially help you.
Pose 4—Legs must remain flat on mat or floor (knees locked). Palms must remain
flat on mat or floor (arms stretched straight forward).

REMARKS
This exercise strengthens the abdominal muscles, and restores the spine to normal.

3. The Roll-Over
With Legs Spread
(Both Ways)

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Lie flat on mat or floor
	(c) Stretch arms (shoulder-wide, touching body, palms down)
	straight forward
	(d) Stretch (close together, knees locked) straight forward
	(e) Stretch toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 2 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY and
	(b) Begin raising legs upward and over until
	(c) Toes touch mat or floor
	(d) EXHALE SLOWLY and
	(e) Press arms firmly against mat or floor
	(f) (Spread legs as far apart as possible)
Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY and
	(b) Begin "rolling" slowly downward with
	(c) Both legs (tensed) straight (and spread as far apart as
	possible)
	(d) Until spine touches mat or floor
	(e) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(f) Returning to position illustrated in next pose below
	(g) With legs about 2" above mat or floor
NOTE

Repeat foregoing exercise five (5) times with legs close together at the start of first
movement and five (5) times with legs spread apart as far as possible at the start
of the second movement.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3 —Keep legs (tensed, knees locked) as far apart as possible. Roll downward
slowly from one vertebra to another.
Pose 4—Keep back and head firmly pressed to mat or floor.

4. The One Leg Circle
(Both Ways)

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Lie flat with entire body resting on mat or floor
	(b) Stretch arms (shoulder-wide, touching body, palms down)
	straight forward
	(c) Bring right leg to upright right angle position
	(d) Stretch toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(e) Left toes upward
Pose 2 	(a) Begin EXHALING SLOWLY at start of downward motion
	with right leg while making a complete left-to-right
	circle (in the air) over the left thigh, then
	(b) Begin INHALING SLOWLY at start of upward motion
	with right leg in completing this circle
	(c) Begin EXHALING SLOWLY at start of downward motion
	with left leg while making a complete right-to-left
	circle (in the air) over the right thigh, then
	(d) Begin INHALING SLOWLY at start of upward motion
	with left leg in completing this circle
Pose 3 	(a) Begin INHALING SLOWLY at start of upward motion
	and with left leg while making a complete right-to-left
Pose 4 	circle (in the air) over the right ankle, then
	(b) Begin EXHALING SLOWLY at start of downward motion
	with left leg in completing this circle
	(c) Begin INHALING SLOWLY at start of upward motion
	with right leg while making a complete left-to-right
	circle (in the air) over the left ankle, then
	(d) Begin EXHALING SLOWLY at start of downward motion
	with right leg in completing this circle

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise five (5) times with each leg.

CAUTIONS

Pose 1—Toes must be pointed forward and downward (knee locked), right leg.
Keep left leg (knee locked) flat on mat or floor with toes "pulled" upward and
backward. Shoulders and head must always remain flat on mat or floor.
Pose 2—Same as Pose 1 but note that right hip is raised.
Pose 4—Same as Pose 2 but note that left hip is raised. "Swing" left and right
legs as far as possible when making circles. Shoulders and head must always
remain flat on mat or floor.

5. Rolling Back

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
Pose 2 	(a) Grasp legs tightly with locked arms
	(b) Try to press thighs to chest
	(c) Bend head forward and downward with chin touching
	chest
	(d) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(e) INHALE SLOWLY
	(f) "Rock" backward to Pose 3 position
Pose 3 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(b) Returning to Pose 2 position

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise six (6) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Press chest in, round back, head down; keep feet off mat or floor.


6. The One Leg Stretch

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Lie flat with entire body resting on mat or floor
Pose 2 	(a) Bend head forward until
	(b) Chin touches chest, then while INHALING SLOWLY
	(c) Clasp hands and
	(d) "Pull" right leg as far as possible toward chest
	(e) Keep left leg stretched forward (knee locked)
	(f) Stretch toes (pointed) forward and downward with
	(g) Heel raised (about 2")
Pose 3 	(a) While EXHALING SLOWLY
	(b) Clasp hands and
	(c) "Pull" left leg as far as possible toward chest
	(d) Keep right leg stretched forward (knee locked)
	(e) Stretch toes (pointed) forward and downward with
	(f) Heel raised (about 2")

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise five (5) times with each leg. (Later on the number
of repetitions may be gradually and progressively safely increased to twelve (12)
times with each leg.)

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Chin must touch chest. You must see your toes. Heels must be raised
(about 2").


7. The Double Leg Stretch

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Rest entire body on mat or floor
	(c) Legs (close together) straight forward
	(d) Knees locked
	(e) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(f) Arms stretched straight forward beside body
	(g) Palms down
Pose 2 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Head up
	(c) Chin to chest
	(d) Arms stretched straight forward and
	(e) Pressed firmly against thighs
	(f) Heels raised about 2" off mat or floor
	(g) Palms inward
Pose 3 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) "Draw" both legs upward and forward and with
	(c) Locked wrists hold them firmly in "doubled-up" position
	as indicated
	(d) "Pull" legs toward you and press them firmly against chest
Pose 4 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise six (6) times. Later to twelve (12).

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Head pressed firmly against chest. Abdomen in. Heels raised about
2" off mat or floor.


8. The Spine Stretch

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Spread legs as wide apart as possible
	(c) "Draw" toes (pointed) upward and backward
Pose 2 	(a) Rest palms flat on mat or floor, then with
	(b) Outstretched arms, palms flat on mat or floor
	(c) Chin touching chest
	(d) Begin reaching forward with three (3) successive "sliding"
	motion-stretching movements as far forward as pos-
	sible until you assume position as illustrated in Poses 3
	and 4

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times, trying with each repetition to
reach farther and farther forward as indicated.

CAUTIONS

Pose 4—Continue EXHALING SLOWLY, abdomen "drawn" in, chin pressed firmly
against chest.
