regularly and properly, or their method of training, has not helped them. 
There isunmistakable evidence, too, that the functioning of the brain has
correspondingly deteriorated. The brain itself is actually a sort of
natural telephone switchboard exchange incorporated in our bodies
as a means of communication through the sympathetic nervous system
to all our muscles. Unfortunately, pure reason plays only a minor part
in the lives of most of us. In practically every instance the daily acts
we perform are governed by what we THINK we see, hear, or
touch, without stopping first to analyze or think of the possible results
of our actions, good or bad. As the result of habit or reflex action,
we wink, dodge, and operate machines more or less automatically.
IDEALLY, OUR MUSCLES SHOULD OBEY OUR WILL. REASONABLY,
OUR WILL SHOULD NOT BE DOMINATED BY THE REFLEX ACTIONS
OF OUR MUSCLES. When brain cells are developed, the mind too is
developed. Teachers start with sense organs. Contrology begins with
mind control over muscles.
	By reawakening thousands and thousands of otherwise ordinarily
dormant muscle cells, Contrology correspondingly reawakens thou-
sands and thousands of dormant brail* cells, thus activating new areas
and stimulating further the functioning of the mind. No wonder then
that so many persons express such great surprise following their
initial experience with Contrology exercises caused by their realization 
of the resulting sensation of "uplift." For the first time in many
years their minds have been truly awakened. Continued use of
Contrology steadily increases the normal and natural supply of pure
rich blood to flow to and circulate throughout the brain with corre-
sponding stimulation to new brain areas previously dormant. More
significantly, it actually develops more brain cells. G. Stanley Hall,
the great American psychologist, observed: "The culture of muscles
is brain-building."

	GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF CONTROLOGY
	Contrology is not a fatiguing system of dull, boring, abhorred
exercises repeated daily "ad nauseum." Neither does it demand your
joining a gymnasium nor the purchasing of expensive