17. The Bicycle

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
Pose 2 	(a) Raise body on arms, elbows, shoulders, neck, and head
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY
	(c) "Split" legs (Pose 3)
Pose 3 	(a) Bend right knee downward and backward and try to
	"kick" yourself
	(b) EXHALE SLOWLY
Pose 4 	(a) "Pull" right leg straight backward
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY
	(c) Bend left knee downward and backward and try to "kick"
	yourself

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing "kicking" exercise five (5)-times with each leg.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3—Be sure to assume position as nearly as possible to that illustrated in this
pose. Stretch each leg alternately forward beyond your vision with knee locked,
toes (pointed) forward and downward.
53


18. The Shoulder Bridge

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
Pose 2 	(a) Raise body on upper arms, elbows, shoulders, neck, head,
	with both feet flat on mat or floor
	(b) Grasp waist firmly with both hands as illustrated
Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Raise right leg forward and upward to upright position
	(c) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Lower right leg forward and downward without bending
	knee and with knee locked
	(c) Thrust chest upward and outward as far as possible as
	illustrated in this pose
Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Raise left leg forward and upward to upright position
	(c) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Lower left leg forward and downward without bending
	knee and with knee locked
	(c) Thrust chest upward and outward as far as possible as
	illustrated in this pose

NOTE

Repeat left leg and right leg movements three (3) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3—Toes pointed, knee locked right leg. Press foot firmly downward on mat
or floor as each leg is lowered and chest thrust out.


19. The Spine Twist

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) INHALE SLOWLY
	(c) Sit perfectly upright in right angle position
	(d) Chest out
	(e) Abdomen "drawn" in
	(f) Head up
	(g) Arms (shoulder-wide, palms down) stretched backward
	until shoulder blades lock
	(h) Legs (close together) resting full length on mat or floor
	(i) Toes (pointed) upward and backward
Pose 2 	(a) Keeping arms and legs absolutely rigid
	(b) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(c) Twisting body and turning head to right as far as pos-
	sible, then with two (2) further supreme mental and
	physical efforts, strive to bette/.. your original first
	attempt
	(d) INHALE SLOWLY while
	(e) Returning to position in
Pose 3 	(a) Illustration
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY while
	(b) Twisting body and turning head to left as far as possible,
	then with two (2) further supreme mental and physical
	efforts, strive to better your original first attempt
	(c) INHALE SLOWLY while
	(d) Returning to position in
Pose 3 	(a) Illustration

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times left and three (3) times right, trying
with each repetition to reach farther and farther backward.

CAUTIONS

Pose 1—Keep arms and legs absolutely rigid. Shoulder blades locked. Twist body
from spine only. Try to touch chin alternately to right and left shoulder.


20. The Jack-Knife

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Rest entire spine on mat or floor
Pose 2 	(a) Stretch arms sidewise
	(b) Both legs (close together) raised upward to right angle
	position
	(c) Knees locked
	(d) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(e) INHALE SLOWLY
Pose 3 	(a) Press arms firmly downward against mat or floor
	(b) With knees locked "roll" body over until
	(c) Spine is raised off mat or floor (about 5")
Pose 4 	(a) "Kick" legs in snappy "jack-knife" fashion straight up-
	ward until
	(b) Entire body rests on head, neck, shoulders, arms
	(c) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(d) Return to Pose 3 position
	(e) INHALE SLOWLY and then
	(f) Return to Pose 2 position
	(g) EXHALE SLOWLY

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 2—Keep legs in right angle position, knees locked, toes pointed.
Pose 3—Hold Pose 3 position for mental count of 2.
Pose 4—Hold Pose 4 position for mental count of 2.


21. The Side Kick

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Lock hands behind head
	(c) Head up
	(d) Eyes straight forward
	(e) Arms straight in line with shoulders
	(f) Lie full length right side on mat or floor
Pose 2 	(a) Bring legs (close together) forward about 2 feet
Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) "Swing" left leg forward as far as possible to you
	(c) Return left leg about 1 foot backward and
	(d) "Swing" left leg forward to you again and attempt to
	better your first trial
Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY, turn around and
	(b) "Swing" right leg forward as far as possible to you
	(c) Return right leg about 1 foot backward and
	(d) "Swing" right leg forward to you again and attempt to
	better your first trial
Pose 4 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY
	(b) "Swing" right leg backward as far as possible
	(c) Return right leg about 1 foot forward and
	(d) "Swing" right leg backward again and attempt to better
	your first trial

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times, left and right.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3 —Head up, elbows back. Keep entire body rigid. Move "free" leg only.
Keep other leg in straight line pressed against mat or floor.
Pose 4—Maintain balance lying on side of body.


22. The Teaser

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Head up
	(c) Legs (close together)
	(d) Knees locked
	(e) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(f) Arms at right angle position beside body
	(g) Hands pointed straight forward
Pose 2 	(a) Bend head forward
	(b) Chin to chest
	(c) Press abdomen in
	(d) "Roll" backward on spine until
	(e) Legs are raised upward to indicated angle
Pose 3 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Raise arms in parallel line with legs as indicated
Pose 4 	(a) "Roll" forward and upward
	(b) "Pivot" on rump keeping
	(c) Raised arms in line with raised legs as indicated (parallel)
	(d) EXHALE SLOWLY and
	(e) Return to Pose 2 position and
	(f) INHALE SLOWLY

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3—Arms and legs must be kept in straight parallel lines. Keep back well
rounded. Chest pressed in.


23. The Hip Twist With Stretched Arms

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
	(b) Put arms in rightangle position
	(c) Firmly pressed to mat or floor with
	(d) Palms of hands in backward position
	(e) Keep legs (close together) straight forward
	(f) Keep toes (pointed) forward and downward
Pose 2 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) Swing legs (close together)
	(c) Knees lock
	(d) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(e) As high as possible
Pose 3 	(a) EXHALE SLOWLY on downward
	(b) "Swing" without legs touching mat or floor
Pose 4 	(a) INHALE SLOWLY
	(b) "Swing" legs upward as high as possible in righthand
	circle
	(c) EXHALE SLOWLY and start to
	(d) "Swing" legs downward in lefthand circle as far as
	possible
	(e) Without legs touching mat or floor

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise three (3) times in succession—three (3) times for
left circle, and three (3) times for righthand circle leg "swing" movements.

CAUTIONS

Pose 1—Press chest inward as far as possible.
Pose 2—Chin down.
Pose 4—When "circling" upward "swing" legs as high and as close to head as
possible. Be sure only legs and hips are moved.


24. Swimming

INSTRUCTIONS
Pose 1 	(a) Take position illustrated
and 	(b) Arms stretched forward
Pose 2	(c) Palms down
	(d) Head upward and backward as far as possible
	(e) Chest raised off mat or floor
	(f) Toes (pointed) forward and downward
	(g) Knees locked
	(h) INHALE and EXHALE normally while performing the
	simultaneous, alternating, compound motions in the
	following movements, counting mentally from 1 to 10,
	beginning with right arm movement
 	
Pose 3 	(a) Left leg and right arm raised upward as far as possible
	and simultaneously reverse to
Pose 4 	(a) Right leg and left arm position and follow instructions
	under (h) in 2 above

NOTE

Repeat the foregoing exercise as indicated in the preceding instructions.

CAUTIONS

Pose 3—Left leg and right arm raised as high as possible in upward movements.
Left leg and right arm must not touch mat or floor in downward movements.
Right leg and left arm raised as high as possible in upward movements. Right
leg and left arm must not touch mat or floor in downward movements. Keep
body rigid. Move arms and legs only.
