RESULTS OF CONTROLOGY

	Good posture can be successfully acquired only when the entire
mechanism of the body is under perfect control. Graceful carriage
follows as a matter of course. Just as a good smooth-running auto-
mobile engine is the result of proper parts correctly assembled so that
it operates with a minimum consumption of gasoline and oil with
comparatively little wear, so too is the proper functioning of your own
body the direct result of the assembled Contrology exercises that
produce a harmonious structure we term physical fitness reflecting
itself in a coordinated and balanced tri-part unity of body, mind, and
spirit. This in turn results in perfect posture when sitting, standing, or
walking with the utilization of approximately only 25 per cent of
your energy while the approximately remaining 75 per cent in the
form of surplus energy reserve is "on call" to meet the needs of any
possible emergency.
	The art of correct walking consists principally and simply in a slight
tilting forward of the proper standing posture, alternately placing one
foot before the other with the weight of the body poised and balanced
on the balls of the feet. Be careful not to lock your knees as doing
so will jar the spine and interrupt the rhythmic walking motion.
	Standing also is very important and should be practiced at all times
until it is mastered. First, assume the correct posture, then when tired,
shift the weight of the body from one side to the other while resting
on the "idle" side. Do not push your hips out or lock your knees.
Progress forward with a slightly swaying graceful motion comparable
to the effect created by a gentle breeze blowing over a field of grow-
ing wheat ready for harvest, causing it to gracefully sway in "waves"
from its roots to its tips. Never slouch, as doing so compresses the
lungs, overcrowds other vital organs, rounds the back, and throws
you off the balance created by poising the weight of your body on
the balls of your feet.
	If you will faithfully follow the instructions, beginning with the
introductory lesson, you will without doubt acquire correct physical
fitness with proper mental control. You will truly be building upon the
solid foundation of Contrology which itself is built upon scientific
principles so true, sound and unique that the science and art of
Contrology will live forever. As you progress in your self-instruction,
you never have anything to "unlearn." These exercises will actually
become a part of your very self securely stored away forever in your
subconscious mind. You who have learned correctly how to ride a
bicycle, how to swim, or how to drive an automobile need never worry
with respect to the possibility of your failing to use the right technique
in these skills on all occasions because of the confidence born of the
fact that you realize you received your instructions from the best
available source and authority. So, too, the acquirement and prac-
tice of the art and science of Contrology will instill that confidence in
you that will remain forever for future use as occasions therefor may
indicate. Then it is simply only a question of "re-toning" the muscles
that have in the meantime become "soft" as the result of disuse.
	With body, mind, and spirit functioning perfectly as a coordinated
whole, what else could reasonably be expected other than an active,
alert, disciplined person? Moreover, such a body freed from nervous
tension and over-fatigue is the ideal shelter provided by nature for
housing a well-balanced mind that is always fully capable of success-
fully meeting all the complex problems of modern living. Personal
problems are clearly thought out and calmly met.
	The acquirement and enjoyment of physical wellbeing, mental calm,
and spiritual peace are priceless to their possessors if there be any
such so fortunate living among us today. However, it is the ideal to
strive for, and in our opinion, it is only through Contrology that this
unique trinity of a balanced body, mind, and spirit can ever be
attained. Self - confidence follows. The ancient Athenians wisely
adopted as their own the Roman motto: "Mens sana in corpore sano"
(A sane mind in a sound body). And the Greeks as a people displayed
even greater wisdom when they practiced what they preached and
thus came nearest to achieving its actual accomplishment. Self-confi-
dence, poise, consciousness of possessing the power to accomplish our
desires, with renewed lively interest in life are the natural results of
the practice of Contrology. Thus we achieve happiness, for is not
real happiness truly born of the realization of worthwhile work well
done, with the gratification of enjoying the other pleasures flowing
from successful accomplishment with its compensating measure of
"play" and resulting relaxation?
	So in your very commendable pursuit of all that is implied in the
trinity of godlike attributes that only Contrology can offer you, we
bid you not goodbye but "au revoir" firmly linked with the sincere wish
that your efforts will result in well-merited success chained to ever-
lasting happiness for you and yours.