GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF CONTROLOGY

	Contrology is not a fatiguing system of dull, boring, abhorred
exercises repeated daily "ad nauseum." Neither does it demand your
joining a gymnasium nor the purchasing of expensive
apparatus.You may derive all the benefits of Contrology in your own home.
The only unchanging rules you must conscientiously obey is that you
must always faithfully and without deviation follow the instructions
accompanying the exercises and always keep your mind wholly
concentrated on the purpose of the exercises as you perform them.
This is vitally important in order for you to gain the results sought,
otherwise, there would be no valid reason for your interest in Con-
trology. Moreover, you must accept all collateral advice with equal
fidelity. Remember that you are teaching yourself—right! The bene-
fits of Contrology depend solely upon your performing the exercises
exactly according to instructions—and not otherwise.
	Remember, too, that "Rome was not built in a day," and that
PATIENCE and PERSISTENCE are vital qualities in the ultimate suc-
cessful accomplishment of any worthwhile endeavor. Practice your
exercises diligently with the fixed and unalterable determination that
you will permit nothing else to sway you from keeping faith with
yourself. At times you may feel tempted to "take a night off." Don't
succumb to this momentary weakness of indecision, or rather, wrong
decision. Decide to remain true to yourself. Think of what would
happen if the stokers firing the boilers of a giant oceanliner were to
decide to "take a night off." You know the answer. If they were to
repeat this action, you know the result. The human body, fortunately,
can withstand more neglect, successfully, than can the complicated
machinery of a modern steamship. However, that is no good reason
why we should unnecessarily and unreasonably tax our bodies beyond
bounds of endurance, especially since doing so results only in hurting
ourselves. Schopenhauer, the philosopher, said: "To neglect one's
body for any other advantage in life is the greatest of follies."
	Make up your mind that you will perform your Contrology exercise
ten minutes without fail. Amazingly enough, once you travel on this
Contrology "Road to Health" you will subconsciously lengthen your
trips on it from ten to twenty or more minutes before you even realize
it. Why? The answer is simple: The exercises have stirred your slug-
gish circulation into action and to performing its duty more effectively
in the matter of discharging through the bloodstream the accumulation
of fatigue-products created by muscular and mental activities. Your
brain clears and your will power functions.
	